Here is a README file tailored to your Hive to Iceberg migration project based on the provided code:

Hive to Iceberg Migration Script

This repository contains a Python script designed to migrate Apache Hive tables to Apache Iceberg format using Apache Spark. The script ensures schema validation, data comparison, and incremental conversion for compatibility and performance optimization.

Table of Contents
	1.	Overview
	2.	Prerequisites
	3.	Features
	4.	Setup
	5.	Usage
	6.	Arguments
	7.	Validation Process
	8.	Troubleshooting
	9.	References

Overview

Migrating Hive tables to Iceberg helps achieve:
	•	Improved performance with metadata management.
	•	Schema evolution without downtime.
	•	ACID transactions and better scalability.

The script performs the following tasks:
	1.	Converts Hive tables to Iceberg format.
	2.	Compares data consistency between Hive and Iceberg.
	3.	Validates schemas to ensure no data loss.

Prerequisites
	•	Python 3.x
	•	Apache Spark (SparkSQL)
	•	Iceberg Runtime (Spark integration)
	•	Access to the Hive Metastore.
	•	PySpark libraries:
	•	pyspark.sql
	•	subprocess
	•	logging

Ensure Iceberg libraries are configured in Spark.

Features
	1.	Table Migration: Migrate Hive tables to Iceberg format.
	2.	Schema Validation: Validate schema and structure between source and target.
	3.	Data Comparison: Verify row count and ensure consistency.
	4.	Backup Handling: Drop and recreate backup tables.
	5.	Automated Execution: Command-line arguments for table-specific migration.

Setup
	1.	Clone this repository:

git clone <repository-link>
cd <repository-folder>


	2.	Install required dependencies:

pip install pyspark


	3.	Update the Spark Configuration with Iceberg support:
	•	Add the Iceberg JAR to Spark classpath.
	•	Update spark.sql.catalog settings for Iceberg.

Usage

Run the script using the following command:

python iceberg_migration.py --table_list table1,table2 --format_version 2

Arguments

Argument	Description
--table_list	Comma-separated list of tables to migrate (e.g., table1,table2).
--format_version	Iceberg table format version (default: 2).
--drop_backup_table	Drop backup table after migration (default: False).
--validate_data	Validate data between Hive and Iceberg tables (default: True).
--handle_timestamps	Handle timestamps without timezone issues (default: False).

Validation Process

The script performs:
	1.	Schema Comparison: Ensures schema consistency between Hive and Iceberg.
	2.	Row Count Validation: Compares row counts to ensure data is migrated successfully.
	3.	Backup Table Management: Backup old tables during migration.

Sample Logs:
	•	Success:

Schema validation completed with status: True
Data comparison matched. Row counts are identical.


	•	Error:

ERROR: Validation failed due to row count mismatch.

Troubleshooting
	1.	Spark Session Error: Ensure Iceberg JAR files are correctly loaded in Spark.
	2.	Schema Mismatch: Check table definitions in Hive before migration.
	3.	Timestamp Issues: Use --handle_timestamps to resolve timestamp mismatches.

References
	•	Apache Iceberg Documentation
	•	Apache Spark Documentation
	•	Hive to Iceberg Migration Guide

Author: [Your Name]
Contact: [Your Email]

Feel free to replace placeholders such as <repository-link> and author details with actual values.
